# X Car Rental Web App

## Overview

This app is designed for both customers and employees of X Car Rental. Logins created by the database administrator can be set to have employee privileges, while those made through the app will have customer (limited) privileges. Employees can search, create, remove, or update (CRUD) bookings as well as search the inventory of vehicles. Customers can make view available vehicles and make bookings. App content is shown to the user depending on the priveleges of their login.

## Features 
* This program was created using object oriented programming (OOP) and the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern.
* Searches produce results for similar and partial terms
* An AJAX request provides radio-selectable list of only those vehicles that are available for the dates that the user enters.

## Initial Project Proposal

Most customers feel that car rental fees are not cheap and have certain expectations about the service. Many of them have preferences of vehicle makes and models that are often unmet when companies simply identify a vehicle type and present a model similar to what they will receive upon booking. For example, from economy to luxury, customers often have strong feelings of love for one manufacturer and dislike for another, such as Ford and Chevrolet. When a customer pays up to $350 dollars a day to rent a vehicle that is “the same or similar” to the one they have chosen, an important need is not being met. Furthermore, when the customer has a concern or complaint, it can be difficult to get to a human being on the other end of the phone to voice themselves.

To solve this problem, we are proposing a web application that takes the booking process one simple step further, presenting customers with choices about actual inventory available at a given time and allowing them to choose the vehicle make and model that is right for them. This step will be made available after certain parameters such as price, vehicle type, and passengers have been identified. Customers will have the option to search directly for a vehicle that they have in mind from the start if they please, eliminating unnecessary steps and immediately informing them of the availability of said vehicle.
  
Some of the challenges our team will face and address in the construction of this application are as follows: This website must have the ability to generate a live inventory of their products. It must also have the ability to display the product details, including, but not limited to make, model, and type of vehicle. Furthermore, the website must have the ability to use a search function to search through inventory with keywords. Standard add-ons for insurance, roadside assistance, and other services must be offered before checkout. There will need to be a shopping cart feature with the ability to add products, display the contents of shopping cart, and empty after checking out. Another feature that is needed is a user profile. This feature needs to use a registration form to document user information and sign in and out of the website. Moreover, administrative features also need to be added. This includes the ability to add new data to the website’s database, as well as updating and deleting existing data in the database. The application will also have uniform and consistent construction throughout. This means common banners on each page and a clear and efficient navigation system.

We are prepared to take on all of the challenges listed above. First and foremost, we will approach this project from an Object-Oriented Programming perspective. Also, our system will be designed using the MVC design pattern. When dealing with the generation of a live inventory of products, we will use a MySQL database system to store the data for this business. In combination with PHP, we will have the ability to generate a live inventory, display product details, and create a search function that will enhance user experience. Not only that, but interactivity and usability will be boosted through the use of AJAX. This will allow for the web application to send and retrieve data from our server asynchronously without interrupting user experience.

Matthew is a third-year Informatics student with a specialization in computer science. He will be focusing on interactivity with JavaScript and AJAX, supporting data manipulation for creating, displaying, and searching content, OOP, and one of the real-world objects, as well as aiding with the HTML and CSS necessary for the styling of the website. Danny is a third-year Informatics student with a specialization in business. He will be focusing on the MVC design pattern, OOP, creation of the MySQL database, and one of the real-world objects. Danny will also be focusing on the front-end design via HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP. We plan to have some overlap in tasks and support each other with debugging and testing. Coltin is a fourth-year Human Resources and Management student completing his minor in Informatics. He will be focusing on user-related features of the application. This includes preventing normal users from accessing admin pages, generating a user's cart and they're previous purchases, and creating/editing account information. This role will focus on using PHP sessions to remember users across pages until they either sign out or exit the application.


